Graphics and Graphic Displays Articles (#178)
xodio/xod-docs: docs/guide/st7735-display/README.md

![ST7735 displays](./st7735-displays.jpg)

The ST7735 display is a TFT LCD that is controlled by the ST7735/ST7735S/ST7735B micro-chip driver, which acts as a bridge between the display matrix and the microcontroller. These colorful displays are cheap, easy to connect and control. Therefore, they spread widely in the Arduino world and their popularity gave rise to many breakout board variations.

The displays breakout boards belong to the ST7735 family can have the following parameters:

- Display resolution:
  - 0.96" (80x160 pixels);
  - 1.44" (128x128 pixels);
  - 1.8" (128x160 pixels);
- Display colors (Color mode):
  - 16-bit "High color", 65,536 colors;
  - 18-bit, 262,144 colors; 
- Interfaces:
  - SPI interface (software of hardware);
  - Parallel MCU interface (8-bit, 9-bit, 16-bit & 18-bit);

To work with the ST7735 family displays XOD provides the [`xod-dev/st7735-display`](/libs/xod-dev/st7735-display) library.

<div class="ui segment note">
<span class="ui ribbon label">Note</span>
At the moment, the library allows to work only with displays with a resolution of 128x160 pixels, 16-bit color depth, and connected via hardware SPI bus.
</div>

## Quick start nodes

> ST7735 breakout boards can differ from each other and require different initialization methods. Therefore, the `xod-dev/st7735-display` library contains 4 quick-start nodes at once - [`st7735-128x160-b`](/libs/xod-dev/st7735-display/st7735-128x160-b), [`st7735-128x160-g`](/libs/xod-dev/st7735-display/st7735-128x160-g), [`st7735-128x160-rg`](/libs/xod-dev/st7735-display/st7735-128x160-rg), and [`st7735-128x160-rr`](/libs/xod-dev/st7735-display/st7735-128x160-rr). Each of these nodes works with a display of a certain type conventionally named "B", "G", "RG", and "RR". With a specific display on your hands you can try each of these nodes and find out which type your display belongs to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ST7735 breakout boards can differ from each other and require different initialization methods. Therefore, the `xod-dev/st7735-display` library contains 4 quick-start nodes at once - [`st7735-128x160-b`](/libs/xod-dev/st7735-display/st7735-128x160-b), [`st7735-128x160-g`](/libs/xod-dev/st7735-display/st7735-128x160-g), [`st7735-128x160-rg`](/libs/xod-dev/st7735-display/st7735-128x160-rg), and [`st7735-128x160-rr`](/libs/xod-dev/st7735-display/st7735-128x160-rr). Each of these nodes works with a display of a certain type conventionally named "B", "G", "RG", and "RR". To find out which type your specific display belongs to, try each of these nodes until it works.

```

Reviewer: Последнее предложение

![Quickstart nodes](./quickstart-nodes.png)

Wire your display to the microcontroller via hardware SPI bus and fill in the `CS`, `DC`, `RST` pin values according to the microcontroller ports. The `CS` is the "Chip Select" microcontroller port of the SPI interface. `DC` is the "Data/Command" microcontroller port responsible for sending data and commands to the display driver.

The `RST` pin is the "Reset" microcontroller port the display is connected to. This port is responsible for the display reset which can be required during device initialization. Not all ST7735 breakout boards have this pin. If your ST7735 breakout board has this pin, be sure to link it with a microcontroller and set the appropriate port value at the `RST` pin. If your breakout board does not have an `RST` pin, then leave the `D255` default value untouched.

> The `GFX` input pin of the `graphics` type specifies the graphics to render and display on the device screen. The `GFX` awaits a branch of the tree of graphical elements created using the [Graphics library](/docs/guide/graphics-library). The [boolean](/docs/reference/data-types/#boolean-literals/) value at the `ACT` pin is responsible for updating the display screen if the incoming graphics at the `GFX` pin change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `GFX` input pin of the `graphics` type specifies the graphics to render and display on the device screen. The `GFX` awaits a branch of the tree of graphical elements created using the [Graphics library](/docs/guide/graphics-library). The [boolean](/docs/reference/data-types/#boolean-literals/) value at the `ACT` pin is responsible for the display screen update due to change of the incoming graphics at the `GFX` pin.

```

## Render the scene

The `render` node is your main tool to display [graphic scenes](/docs/guide/graphics-library/#scene-as-a-tree). The `render` processes a single branch of the graphic tree created using the [Graphics library](/docs/guide/graphics-library), renders it, and displays at the device. 

![Render node](./render-node.png)

A graphic tree branch to render links to the input `GFX` pin. A pulse signal at the `DO` pin is a trigger to process the graphic scene and display it. If the scene is rendered, a pulse comes to the `DONE` output pin. 

Use multiple `render` nodes simultaneously. Processing various branches of the graphic tree at a different time, you can show dynamic graphic scenes at the screen.

Here is the example of a three `render` nodes use. The tree of graphic elements consists of a `canvas` and two `point` on it. The device node and three nodes `render` are linked together in a daisy chain. All `render` nodes have different triggering algorithms at their `DO` pins.

![Render daisy chain](./render-daisy-chain.png)

> The first `render` is on `boot`; it fulls the display screen with a specified `canvas` only ones after powering the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first `render` is on `boot`; it fills the display screen with a specified `canvas` only once — after powering the device.

```

Reviewer: or "fools"? not clear =)
